To create the appropriate files for this demo, do the following:
	To create ATOMS.SYS: 		do	ML -FeATOMS.SYS ATOMS.ASM
	To create ATOMTEST.EXE: 	do	ML ATOMTEST.ASM
	To create CTEST.EXE:		do	CL CTEST.C

How does a device driver work? A BRIEF summary for the non-experts:
	Devices are accessed through interrupt 21h functions. They can be 
character or block devices. Requests from a program are converted into 
requests to the driver by DOS. Basically, DOS takes the contents of DS, 
DX, BX, CX, and AX, converts them and stores them in the request header 
structure. It first calls the Driver's Strategy routine, which should 
store the pointers to the structure so they can be used later. Then, DOS 
calls the actual Interrupt routine, which should handle the request. The 
device gets its data and outputs its results through the request header 
structure.
     	To make a request to the device, you need a handle to it. To get 
the handle, you use the open device function. Then, to make a call you 
put the handle in BX, and whatever other data, if applicable. The buffer 
segment goes in DS, the buffer offset in DX, the byte count in CX, the 
function in AX. Then do an INT 21h and you're set.
	Every driver is initialized only once, and at that point it has to 
tell DOS how much memory it uses (its break address). At this time it 
also gets pointers to the CONFIG.SYS = line that loaded the driver. 
Since the initialization function is used only once, its memory space 
can be deallocated after its use.
	Device drivers are usually binary images, the same format that 
.COM files use. Therefore, you either have to use a 'TINY' model 
directive or use a utility such as EXE2BIN to convert you program. 
Although .EXE files can also be drivers, their use is not recommended. 
Driver files have to start at 0000h in memory, therefore the .ORG 0000h 
directive. They also can't have stacks. In linking you will get an 
error saying that the tiny program doesn't start at 0100h: this is 
normal. Only .COM files need to start at that address. The first thing 
at address 0000h has to be the driver header. See the source code for 
details on it.

How the ATOMS device driver works:
	The atoms driver, referenced from DOS by ATMS, is a simple driver 
that possesses some of the functionality of environment variables. It 
allows users to set variables in the driver's memory space, but the 
difference is  that a variable set in the driver can be accessed by any 
program in any other environment. They can run at different times, in 
different Windows DOS-boxes, etc. The driver code takes less than 600 
bytes of memory, plus whatever buffer you specify.
	The operations the driver supports are: the DOS Initialization 
(required for all drivers), Output Status (i.e. is there still memory 
available), Device Open, Device Close, and of course Read (transfer from 
the atom selected in write to a buffer) and Write. Write is the biggest 
chunk of code and has the largest functionality: If the input string is 
'variable', then it will search for the variable in memory and set the 
output buffer to point to it. If the input is 'variable=', then the 
variable is deleted from memory. If the input is 'variable=value' then 
variable is set into the memory. A variable name can be ANY character 
except '=', linefeed, carriage return, or '\0' (ASCII 0).
	Some details on how the write function works: when it's doing an 
insert, if the driver finds the variable in memory then it first checks 
to see if there's enough space for the new size of the variable, and 
then inserts the new atom. Also, a potential for 'race' problems exists 
if programs are running concurrently: if a program wants to do a search 
and it writes the request to the driver, there's a chance that another 
program will do a read after before the original program can do it, and 
get that program's search result.
	The driver can be loaded with the DEVICE= or DEVICEHIGH= 
directives in the CONFIG.SYS file. To load the driver, insert a 
'DEVICE=[path]ATOMS.SYS' line in the file. To change the driver memory 
from the default 1K buffer, follow the device name with a blank space 
and a decimal number specifying the buffer size in bytes, for example, 
'DEVICE=C:\DOS\ATOMS.SYS  4000'. Non-digit characters will be ignored. 
	Raw vs. Cooked mode: when loaded, drivers are initially in cooked 
mode. This means that DOS will search through input/output of the device 
for special characters like a CTRL-C, etc. Cooked mode also means that 
DOS will make the driver read or write one character at a time: if 
there's a request to read 20 characters, DOS would make 20 one-character 
requests. The Atoms driver simply cannot function in cooked mode, and 
the first thing after you open the device should be to put the device 
into raw mode (no translation) see the sample code for details on how to 
do this. In C, you can do this by linking BINMODE.OBJ with the object 
file.
	Atoms is a sample driver, and there's lots of room to improve the 
driver: assignments cannot reference other atoms in memory, there's no 
way to output the whole memory buffer, and insert are somewhat 
inefficient in that space for the new value could be made at the 
previous location.
	One last thing: remember you can't have a file with the same name 
as the device driver (i.e. you can't have an atms.sys file, or an atms 
directory).

For a complete discussion of MS-DOS device drivers, check out books like 
The MS-DOS Encyclopedia (c) 1988 Microsoft Press, or the Microsoft MS-
DOS Programmer's Reference (c) 1991.  		      

The Device Driver's Code
	The code for the device driver can be cleanly separated into two 
areas: Code absolutely required for device drivers, and code that is 
required for the implementation of this device driver.
	The Device Header, Strategy Routine, and Interrupt Routine, are 
required for all drivers. The header specifies the link to the next 
device (the -1 is replaced by DOS). The Attribute word identifies us as 
a character device that supports Open and Close. The Strat and Intr 
NPTRs tell DOS the entry points when calling the driver.
	The Strategy routine's only function should be to store the 
pointer to the request header , which DOS puts in ES:BX before calling 
it.
	The Interrupt routine is a bit more complicated: It should make 
sure registers are preserved, call the appropriate code routine, and set 
the status word. The typical way to handle the different request is to 
have a Dispatch Table.
	The rest of the code is called by the Interrupt routine.
	The Init procedure shows the sign-on message, calls on Scan to 
evaluate the command line, and sets the request header with the break 
address for the pointer.
	The Scan procedure 'scans' the command line for the number of 
bytes to allocate.
	The Read procedure copies from what pAtomVal is pointing to the 
data buffer specified in the request header.
	The Output Status procedure checks to see if there's at least one 
more space available in the driver memory.
	The Device Close, Open and Input Status routines simply set the 
status word to OK.
	The Write routine's algorithm: get the length of the source 
buffer, find out what operation to perform, try to find a match within 
the memory. If doing an insert, check to see if a delete is needed, then 
insert the atom. Then, if a match was found, set pAtomVal or delete the 
atom from memory, as necessary. 
	The Delete routine gets an initial address and a byte count, and 
shifts elements back according to the count.
	The st_len routine puts the length of a string into ax.

